# U5550685 Project README

## File Structure

This repository contains the following files:

```
.
├── Model_Selection/
│   ├── gpt-oss.ipynb
│   └── qwen3.ipynb
├── Evaluation/
│   └── baseGPT.ipynb
├── gpt_oss_qlora/
│   ├── adapter_config.json
│   └── adapter_model.safetensors
├── fine_tune.jsonl
├── fine_tune.sqlite
├── convert_sqlite_to_jsonl.py
├── fine_tune.ipynb
├── generate_new_request.ipynb
├── wrapper.py
├── generated_request.txt
├── redacted_request.txt
├── input_request.txt
├── log.sqlite
├── requirements.txt
└── README.md
```

The files contained in the [Model_Selection](./Model_Selection/) dirctory are the Jupyter Notebooks used to evaluate the base Qwen3-14B and GPT-OSS-20B models in order to select which model to fine-tune.

The file contained in the [Evaluation](./Evaluation/) directory is the Jupyter Notebook used to evaluate the base GPT-OSS-20B model in order to compare its performance to the fine-tuned model.

The [fine_tune.jsonl](./fine_tune.jsonl) file is the dataset that the model was trained on during fine-tuning. The [fine_tune.sqlite](./fine_tune.sqlite) file holds this same dataset in a more human-readable format and the provided [./convert_sqlite_to_jsonl.py](./convert_sqlite_to_jsonl.py) file can be used to convert from the SQLite format to JSONL

The [fine_tune.ipynb](./fine_tune.ipynb) file is the Jupyter Notebook used to fine-tune the model.

The [generate_new_request.ipynb](./generate_new_request.ipynb) file is the Juypter Notebook used to prompt the model with a previous HTTP request and have it generate a new request.

The [wrapper.py](./wrapper.py) file is the code that the user runs which can redact the provided HTTP request before it is sent to the model and send HTTP requests to automatically check if the payload executed.

The [log.sqlite](./log.sqlite) file is the log generated by the [wrapper.py](./wrapper.py) file.

## Setting up Google Colab and Google Drive

All provided Jupyter Notebook files are designed to be run using [Google Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/). You can use this service in a browser as long as you have a Google account. Note that their is a daily usage limit per account for this service.

These notebooks all include the saved output from their most recent run so that it is possible to see what happens when the execute without executing these notebooks yourself. Note than some notebooks may have error messages displayed related to rendering issues. This is expected. These errors are simply in place of loading bars that were rendered during the notebooks execution.

To run the provided notebooks, you must connect to a `T4 GPU` runtime. From there you can then execute the code cells in order. 

When running some notebooks, you will be prompted to grant permission for access to your Google Drive. This is so that the neccessary files such as the saved model adapters can be accessed. You must grant Colab all the permissions it prompts for otherwise the code will not execute successfully.

The necessary files must be uploaded to Google Drive under the same Google account as the one used to authenticate to Colab.

### fine_tune.ipynb
For running [fine_tune.ipynb](./fine_tune.ipynb), you must upload the files with the following exact structure:

```
.
└── U5550685/
    ├── gpt-oss-qlora/
    └── fine_tune.jsonl
```
The resulting files for the fine-tuned model will then be saved inside the uploaded `gpt-oss-qlora` directory.

### generate_new_request.ipynb
For running [generate_new_request.ipynb](./generate_new_request.ipynb), you must upload the files with the following exact structure:

```
.
└── U5550685/
    ├── gpt-oss-qlora/
    │   ├── adapter_config.json
    │   └── adapter_model.safetensors
    └── redacted_request.txt
```

Before executing, you must ensure the `exploit_type` variable in cell 4 has been correctly set to reflect the whether the model should generate an XSS or SQLi payload.

The resulting generated request will then be saved to `U5550685/generated_request.txt`.

### baseGPT.ipynb
For running [Evaluation/baseGPT.ipynb](./Evaluation/baseGPT.ipynb), you must upload the files with the following exact structure:

```
.
└── U5550685/
    └── redacted_request.txt
```

Before executing, you must ensure the `exploit_type` variable in cell 4 has been correctly set to reflect the whether the model should generate an XSS or SQLi payload.

The resulting generated request will then be saved to `U5550685/generated_request.txt`.

### qwen3.ipynb or gpt-oss.ipynb
Before running either [Model_Selection/qwen3.ipynb](./Model_Selection/qwen3.ipynb) or [Model_Selection/gpt-oss.ipynb](./Model_Selection/gpt-oss.ipynb), you must ensure the value of the `previous_request` variable is set to reflect the input payload you want the model to generate a new request based on.

## Normal Use (wrapper.py)

You will first need to install the necessary Python requirements on your local machine from the [requirements.txt](./requirements.txt) file. You can do this with the following command:

``` bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

You must also install Playwright:
```bash
playwright install
```

Once installed you will then be able to run the [wrapper.py](./wrapper.py) file. This script provides instructions once run. Importantly, you must save the HTTP request to be inputted in [input_request.txt](./input_request.txt) and ensure this is in the same directory as the [wrapper.py](./wrapper.py) file. When prompted, you must then take the produced [redacted_request.txt](./redacted_request.txt) file and upload it to your Google Drive. Before executing [generate_new_request.ipynb](./generate_new_request.ipynb), you must ensure the exploit_type variable in cell 4 has been correctly set to reflect the whether the model should generate an XSS or SQLi payload. You can then run the [generate_new_request.ipynb](./generate_new_request.ipynb) with Google Colab. Take save the produced `generated_request.txt' file and save it to [generated_request.txt](./generated_request.txt) in the same directory as the [wrapper.py](./wrapper.py) file.

This is necessary as the [wrapper.py](./wrapper.py) file does not contain the logic to run the fine-tuned model due to resource limitations and this must be done with Google Colab instead. If this project was used in industry, the logic from the [generate_new_request.ipynb](./generate_new_request.ipynb) should be incorporated into the [wrapper.py](./wrapper.py) file at the point indicated with comments in [wrapper.py](./wrapper.py). This means users would then not have to interact with these files whilst the code is running nor would they have to use Google Colab.

The final request will be saved by [wrapper.py](./wrapper.py) to `./output_request.txt`.

Note that [wrapper.py](./wrapper.py) can be run with various arguments. These can be seen by running the file with the --help argument e.g.:
``` bash
python3 ./wrapper.py --help
```

The output is as follows:
```
usage: wrapper.py [-h] [--auto] [--no-redaction] [--no-test] [--proxy] [--http] [--url URL]

A wrapper for the fine-tuned LLM to redact the HTTP requests and send them to test for automatic payload execution

options:
  -h, --help      show this help message and exit
  --auto          run without prompting you for consent for each action
  --no-redaction  run without redacting the HTTP request before passign it to the LLM
  --no-test       run without sending the request to the site to automatically check if the payload executed
  --proxy         proxy traffic on port 8080
  --http          forces HTTP rather than HTTPS
  --url URL       specify the URL to visit to trigger the payload if this differs from the page the payload is sent to

```